welcome to slash forward
where we always wonder which is worse
mutants
or zombies or vampires we'll examine all
three in the 1980 italian trash classic
nightmare city comment with your
thoughts on how to best classify what
these things are
and consider subscribing to the channel
to continue your research
let's get to it we open
as in any italian film on some jazzy ass
music over scenes of the big city
just so you get a sense of the setting
of the film you know and then
news exposition about a nuclear spill
that luckily follows dean miller
all the way to his meeting keeping both
him and us apprised of the situation
he's a journalist you see and he's been
given the task of meeting with a high
official at the airport to acquire some
additional details
he and his cameraman arrive early
because he's a stone cold professional
and via his experience he has a sense
that something is off here
we get confirmation of this in the
control tower as they notice an
unscheduled aircraft flying in low and
hard from the northeast
turns out it's an unmarked military
transport so they open up a lane and let
it land
no problem at all it eventually touches
down about five miles away and by the
time the authorities arrive it appears
to be unpiloted
all this commotion and fanfare is enough
to get miller hard as a rock so they run
out to bear witness to these potentially
historic events
the police surround the fuselage and
command its occupants to come out
professor hagenbach the man miller was
there to interview emergence
while this seems convenient the rest of
the occupants pour out and immediately
begin slaughtering
all the look-a-loos and using them to
fulfill their insatiable thirst for
blood
so not that convenient these mutants
seem to be impervious to physical pain
and their travails are recorded for
posterity by miller and his cameraman
but as the violence continues to spill
out in waves
dean makes the call to go ahead and pull
back and retreat a wise choice as
in the aftermath we see that no one was
spared in town they're too busy creating
content for the local station
fulfilling the population's basis
desires to heed any warnings of the big
happenings going down at the airport
so as these dancers are recorded by the
medical personnel that apparently run
the station
miller returns to commandeer the
airwaves and let the news be heard
he claims autonomy over the station am i
in charge of the broadcast
or not enforces his report through all
frequencies
as dean gets caught up in having his
moment the chief gives him some major
blue balls by cutting the signal so they
can discuss this
first and in the meantime we dance as
miller goes to tell the chief to never
interrupt him when he's in the middle of
expositing we find general murchison was
at the station
already and declines to uphold its high
ethical standards of journalism in order
to keep the city calm
as they work through their investigation
dean leans heavily on his right to
disseminate information
but murchison leans heavily on the cheap
threatening personal punishment for
allowing the news to run
a poignant encapsulation of the danger
of for-profit news
in the aftermath of this conversation
miller is both fired and
quits then he snatches a phone from a
former co-worker so he can call home
unfortunately he only catches his
housekeeper who tries to run out and
catch his wife anna but misses her as
she's now heading into work at the
hospital
and his mission is now clear meanwhile
somewhere and for some reason an artist
prepares to make love to her elderly
muse
she sees god in the delicate folds of
his neck flaps but they are
unfortunately interrupted by the phone
the call of which major holmes is unable
to ignore he's just too important and
serious of a man
and sure enough he discovers he's been
called in for a consultation regarding
the airport situation
and then again we dance and spread and
dance
and the men are so busy gazing upon this
performance that they barely notice that
tina's failed to hit her mark then her
assailant emerges and stabs to the beat
however when his friends join in party
time is over as the dance escalates into
a slaughter
the natural next level when discussing
magnitudes of frenzy miller sees this
happening and closes several of them
into the studio before immediately
getting on the phone with civil defense
to make sure they're apprised of the
situation he then chucks an exploding
monitor and ducks out
under cover of electrical fire in the
hall most paths are blocked but he's
agile enough to slip into the service
elevator and find his way out
he then cuts through the bedlam to an
available car and then tears through the
landscaping like he's in the italian job
meanwhile anna's making the rounds at
the hospital where things are still
quiet
at the command center we find the civil
defense crew trying to get their arms
around this but the reports coming in
are sketchy and erratic
one advantage they roll in a sample
mutant to confirm they aren't aliens
just highly radioactive humans blessed
with hyper regeneration
donohue then confirms that there is some
transfer of material from assailant to
victim that they're driven by a constant
need to try to replenish their depleted
red blood cell count and that head shots
are
ideal a real mishmash of mythologies but
updated for the 20th century
holmes steps away to interrupt sheila's
glow up i
want to look nice for you this evening
yeah and instructs her to secure the
home and answer to no one
she runs outside to find the gardener
derelict in his duties before locking
herself
in she then runs upstairs to discover
her masterpiece has been defaced with a
bloody knife but we don't have time for
that
dina is urgently attempting to reach his
wife unfortunately she's busy in the or
and can't be disturbed so he takes his
frustration out on a pedestrian and
since all good movies have innumerable
narrative threads we then meet up with
jessica murchison
the general's daughter she has been
summoned to meet up with her father for
her own protection
however when she calls to confirm this
with him the line goes dead
luckily her husband convinces her they
should sneak out so they don't miss the
day trip to the countryside they had
already planned
this decision allows them to narrowly
and unwittingly escape harm
as their transport is slaughtered as
they leave it's dark when dean finally
makes it to the hospital and anna is
still
tied up requiring him to wait it out
meanwhile at a nearby military base
everyone's going about their normal
business when
whitey starts acting strange or strange
er
here we witness our first
victim-turned-mutant zombie vampire
who's brought in a trojan horse of
fellow mutants who descend upon the
soldiers
quickly overtake the base and then shut
down the power grid back at the command
post
civil defense is still playing with
their models and in their benevolence
deem it's still necessary to keep the
public in the dark so as to prevent any
major catastrophes from unfolding
via panic the result of this is a
hospital staff oblivious to the danger
as the bodies finally start to arrive
fully understanding what this signals
dean begins to head to the or
luckily anna had to dip out for medical
supplies while fulfilling her list she
discovers that she's not alone
but it's okay because in this case the
mutants she runs across are really
more about creating tension and high
drama which allows her a chance to run
off where she eventually meets up with
dean
she tells him what she saw but he
already knows all that so they try to
find a way out as the or is overtaken
and the boys start sucking on that good
stuff
downstairs the millers find a quiet
place to hide out and wait they listen
to everyone else getting killed and
things start to die down a bit as the
carnage spills outside when the coast
seems clear they slip out and manage to
escape in an ambulance the next morning
we see holmes buzzing the city in his
helicopter keeping an eye on things as
they drive through the wasteland at
command we learn that all communications
are cut
so they have no choice but to call in a
state of emergency and begin prepping
the bombers at the nearby airfield
the millers hear about the lockdown and
take a few moments of their drive to
philosophize about the consequences of
man's interference in nature which
brings them
no solutions whatsoever out in a field
by the road jessica and bob hear the
news and debate whether to find
protection or continue their vacation
they ultimately decide to wait on their
friends to arrive to fill them in on
what's going on in the city
jessica is startled by a nearby corpse
but happy to see their friends have
arrived
but she quickly grows unhappy to see
them as they have arrived as mutants and
waste
no time at all gunning them down and
sucking them dry back at the holmes
resident sheila has gotten over the
vandalism of her favorite bust and is
focused on rebuilding her masterpiece
but she's drawn downstairs by the
frantic knocking of her friend cindy
she's spooked out and neither of them
have a good idea of what's going on when
cindy mentions having barricaded her
cellar sheila realizes she missed that
entry point so they both head downstairs
to secure it
while there they hear a bump which
sheila goes off to explore on her own
she finds an open door but the danger is
downstairs with cindy who suffers the
slow insertion of a large spike just
below her breast and then
into her eyeball meanwhile the millers
are still driving but are eventually
forced to pull over for gas
dean looks for an attendant and wipes
his fingers across a bloody axe
since he can't find the bloodsack it
came from he gives the all clear
with society now fallen they help
themselves to whatever they'd like
enjoying a minor shopping spree capped
off with some coffee
having now sufficiently dipped their
toes in that water dean then goes to
fuel up while
anna stays behind to rob the store blind
but she's interrupted by a mutant
dean rushes in so they can barricade
themselves inside and they soon find the
ambulance as no longer viable he
immediately flashes back to his old
revolutionary days and sets to creating
a molotov cocktail
as their enemies begin to gather up
around the pump his plan
works well now on foot they rush out
into a field where anna begins to lose
all hope
but dean's stoicism and thirst for
violence carries them through
as they work through these troubles
holmes continues to zip around as the
mutants playfully race the helicopter
seeing they've all grouped up he calls
in an airstrike while he waits on that
the millers arrive at a quiet church but
proceed with caution
if they're really vampires they can't
enter the house of god
but are they they find the father who
they seem to not realize is a mutant
until we the audience
see it as well and dean let's know that
jesus compels him to get his wig split
still waiting on that airstrike holmes
decides to go check in and finds the
airfield full of fueled and armed planes
but no pilots in sight he notifies
command of this development and is
called back to home base
along the way he stops off at his villa
to pick up sheila unfortunately he
arrives to bear witness to the
consequence of the prior altercation and
is forced to shoot her damn head off
the millers eventually stumble upon and
abandon amusement park which seems fun
but then they discover a jeep they could
use for their escape
and decide to do that instead as dean
checks it out he's forced to practice
his sharpshooting skills on anna's face
and then they're overtaken and forced to
abandon this plan dean however does
manage to pick up firearms from the
fallen soldiers and sprays down any who
stepped to him
exploding fool's heads left and right
they proceed up a secret path while
chucking grenades for cover and what
seemed
foolishly hopeless turns out to be the
best decision they could ever make as
holmes now despondent is listlessly
wandering about the city and happens to
fly in their general direction at that
exact
moment so he pulls up and goes fishing
for survivors unfortunately
and despite their best encouragement and
knots in the rope anna does
fail her fifth grade fitness test
allowing herself to be overcome with a
swooning fit and plunging to the earth
below dean then wakes up
late for work you see he's on his way to
the airport to interview a professor
hagenbach he arrives apparently
oblivious to the dream deja vu
resulting in events unfolding in a
manner familiar to us but that he seems
destined to reenact
and oh man they got us on this one you
guys
i have a website set up where you can
support the channel through donations or
merch i'd like to take a moment to give
a huge thanks to my donors memorialized
in the hall of head shots
[Music]
my vote is that these things were just
mutants the zombie and vampire aspects
were secondary factors to the nature of
their mutation
nightmare city is one of those kinds of
movies a classic and 80s italian horror
cheese it struggles to find a narrative
but fills it in with extended scenes of
gore and gratuitous nudity all of this
is hung on a framework of actors putting
in an earnest performance of a
ridiculous situation
a cornerstone for making an entertaining
film if you enjoyed the video i'd love
for you to become part of the channel by
subscribing thanks for watching